Add more information to reflection guide (#2005)
scala/docs.scala-lang: _overviews/scala3-macros/tutorial/reflection.md

This will import all the types and modules (with extension methods) of the API.

## How to navigate the API

The full imported API can be found here: [Reflection][reflection doc].
Unfortunately, at this stage, this automatically generated documentation is not very easy to navigate.

> The most important element on the page is the hierarchy tree which provides a syntethic overview of the subtyping relationships of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most important element on the page is the hierarchy tree, which provides a synthetic overview of the subtyping relationships of
```

the types in the API. For each type `Type` in the tree:

 - the object `TypeMethods` contains the methods available for `Type`

>  - the object `TypeModule` contains some _static-ish_ methods, most notably constructors (`apply/copy`) and the `unapply` method which provides the extractor(s) required for pattern matching.

Reviewer 2: Okay, I see this was part of the docs before this PR already. Let's leave it in for now.

>  - the object `TypeModule` contains some _static-ish_ methods, most notably eventual constructors (`apply/copy`) and the `unapply` method which provides the extractor(s) required for pattern matching.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - the object `TypeModule` contains some _static-ish_ methods, most notably constructors (`apply/copy`) and the `unapply` method which provides the extractor(s) required for pattern matching.
```

 - For all types `Upper` such that `Type <: Upper`, the methods defined in `UpperMethods` are available on `Type` as well.

For example `TypeBounds`, a subtype of `TypeRepr`, represents a type tree of the form `T >: L <: U`: a type `T` which is a super type of `L`

> and a subtype of `U`. In `TypeBoundsMethods` you will find the methods `low` and `hi` which allow you to access the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and a subtype of `U`. In `TypeBoundsMethods`, you will find the methods `low` and `hi`, which allow you to access the
```

> representations of `L` and `U`. In `TypeBoundsModule` you will find the `unapply` method which enables you to write:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
representations of `L` and `U`. In `TypeBoundsModule`, you will find the `unapply` method, which allows you to write:
```

> For example [`TypeBounds`](https://dotty.epfl.ch/api/scala/quoted/Quotes$reflectModule.html#TypeBounds-0), a subtype of `TypeRepr`, represents a type tree of the form `T >: L <: U`: a type `T` which is a super type of `L`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example [`TypeBounds`](https://dotty.epfl.ch/api/scala/quoted/Quotes$reflectModule.html#TypeBounds-0), a subtype of `TypeRepr`, represents a type of the form `T >: L <: U`: a type `T` which is a super type of `L`
```

Author: I think it might be confusing to call `TypeRepr` when we have `TypeTree` around

```scala

> def f(tb: TypeBounds) =

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
def f(tpe: TypeRepr) =
```

>   tb match 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  tpe match 
```

    case TypeBounds(l, u) =>
```

Remember also that `TypeBounds <: TypeRepr`, therefore all the methods defined in `TypeReprMethods` are

> avaialble on `TypeBounds` values.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
available on `TypeBounds` values as in:

``scala
def f(tpe: TypeRepr) =
  tpe match 
    case tpe: TypeBounds =>
      val low =  tpe.low
      val hi =  tpe.hi
``
```

Note that I could not add the triple ` in the suggestion

This will import all the types and modules (with extension methods) of the API.

## How to navigate the API

> The full imported API can be found in the [API documentation for `scala.quoted.Quotes.reflectModule`][reflection doc].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The full API can be found in the [API documentation for `scala.quoted.Quotes.reflectModule`][reflection doc].
```

Unfortunately, at this stage, this automatically generated documentation is not very easy to navigate.

The most important element on the page is the hierarchy tree which provides a synthetic overview of the subtyping relationships of
the types in the API. For each type `Foo` in the tree:

>  - the object `FooMethods` contains the methods available for `Foo`
>  - the object `FooModule` contains some _static-ish_ methods, most notably constructors (`apply/copy`) and the `unapply` method which provides the extractor(s) required for pattern matching.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - the trait `FooMethods` contains the methods available on the type `Foo`
 - the trait `FooModule` contains the static methods available on the object `Foo`. Most notably, constructors (`apply/copy`) and the `unapply` method which provides the extractor(s) required for pattern matching.
```

## How to navigate the API

The full API can be found in the [API documentation for `scala.quoted.Quotes.reflectModule`][reflection doc].
Unfortunately, at this stage, this automatically generated documentation is not very easy to navigate.

The most important element on the page is the hierarchy tree which provides a synthetic overview of the subtyping relationships of

> the types in the API. For each type `Foo` in the tree:

Reviewer 4: It might not be fully clear that `Foo` is a metavariable, we could also use something like `<TYPE>Methods`. But if you think that is not necessary, then I am also ok with how it is.

Reviewer 4: But this can also be addressed in a separate PR. To not block any longer, I am going to accept and merge it as is.

  ...
```

## Symbols

> The APIs of `Term` and `TypeTree` are relatively *closed* in the sense that methods produce and accept values

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The APIs of `Term` and `TypeRepr` are relatively *closed* in the sense that methods produce and accept values
```

 - `TypeRepr.baseClasses` returns the list of symbols of classes extended by a type. 
 - `Symbol.pos` gives you access to the position where the symbol is defined, the source code of the definition
 and even the filename where the symbol is defined.
 - and many useful others that you can find in [`SymbolMethods`](https://dotty.epfl.ch/api/scala/quoted/Quotes$reflectModule$SymbolMethods.html)

### To Symbol and back

 - `TypeRepr.typeSymbol` returns the symbol of the type represented by `TypeRepr`. The recommended way to obtain a `Symbol` given a `Type[T]` is `TypeRepr.of[T].typeSymbol`
 - For a singleton type, `TypeRepr.termSymbol` returns the symbol of the underlying object or value.
 - `TypeRepr.memberType(symbol)` returns the `TypeRepr` of the provided symbol
 - `Tree.symbol` returns the symbol associated to a tree. Given that `Term <: Tree`,
 `Expr.asTerm.symbol` is the best way to obtain the symbol associated to an `Expr[T]`
 - `Symbol.tree` returns the `Tree` associated to the symbol. Be careful when using this
 method as the tree for a symbol might not be defined. When the code associated to the symbol

>  is defined in a different moment than this access, if the `Yretain-trees` compilation option

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 is defined in a different moment than this access, if the `-Yretain-trees` compilation option
```

 is not used, then the `tree` of the symbol will not be available. Symbols originated from
 Java code do not have an associated `tree`.

> ## Suggestion and anti-patterns

Reviewer 3: Those should be moved to https://docs.scala-lang.org/scala3/guides/macros/best-practices.html. There we can expand a bit each point and add some examples if possible.

We could leave a link to that page here.

Author: I moved a few points to best-practices.md and provided small examples

  ...
```

> ## Symbols

Reviewer 2: A thing worth checking is whether the flavor of Markdown used for the docs supports [heading IDs](https://www.markdownguide.org/extended-syntax/#heading-ids). In my experience, adding is a good way of future-proofing internal links, in case a title changes.

Author: docs.scala-lang uses kramdown. I ran `jekyll serve` and the internal link seems to work

The APIs of `Term` and `TypeTree` are relatively *closed* in the sense that methods produce and accept values
whose types are defined in the API. You might notice however the presence of `Symbol`s which identify definitions.

Each `Term` or `TypeRepr` (therefore `Expr` and `Type`) have an associated symbol.

> `Symbol` exposes and is used by many useful methods for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Symbol` exposes and is used by many useful methods. For example:
```

 - `declaredFields` and `declaredMethods` allow you to iterate on the fields and members defined inside a symbol

>  - `flags` allow you to check multiple properties of a symbol

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `flags` allows you to check multiple properties of a symbol
```

 - `companionObject` and `companionModule` provide a way to jump to and from the companion object/class.
 - `TypeRepr.baseClasses` returns the list of symbols of classes extended by a type. 
 - `Symbol.pos` gives you access to the position where the symbol is defined, the source code of the definition
 and even the filename where the symbol is defined.
 - and many useful others that you can find in `SymbolMethods`

### To Symbol and back

 - `TypeRepr.typeSymbol` returns the symbol of the type

>  - `TypeRepr.termSymbol` returns the symbol of the term associated to the type.

Reviewer: It’s not clear to me what a term associated to a type is.

Reviewer 5: I would assume for singleton types. But then it should be explained 👍

Reviewer 5: Or you could say "for a singleton type returns the symbol of the underlying object or val"

 - `TypeRepr.memberType(symbol)` returns the `TypeRepr` of the provided symbol

>  - `TypeRepr.of[T].typeSymbol` is the recommended way to obtain a `Symbol` given a `Type[T]`

Reviewer: Does it overlap with `TypeRepr.typeSymbol` mentioned in the first item?

Author: Yes it is a bit redundant, but it shows how to go quickly from `Type` to `Symbol`

Reviewer 2: In that case, should we perhaps inline this bullet point into the first one?

> `TypeRepr.typeSymbol` returns the symbol of the type represented by `TypeRepr`. The recommended way to obtain a `Symbol` given a `Type[T]` is `TypeRepr.of[T].typeSymbol`.

 - `Tree.symbol` returns the symbol associated to a tree. Given that `Term <: Tree`,
 `Expr.asTerm.symbol` is the best way to obtain the symbol associated to an `Expr[T]`

>  - `Symbol.tree` returns the `Tree` associated to the symbol. Be extremely careful when using this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `Symbol.tree` returns the `Tree` associated to the symbol. Be careful when using this
```

 method as the tree for a symbol might not be defined. When the code associated to the symbol
 is defined in a different moment than this access, if the `Yretain-trees` compilation option
 is not used, then the `tree` of the symbol will not be available. Symbols originated from

>  Java code do not have an associated `tree`.

Reviewer 6: Minor: `in a different moment than this access` -> `in a different project`

It's still not 100% accurate due to incremental compilation. But it seems easier to understand.

Author: Would you prefer `compilation unit`?

Reviewer 6: In the compiler, we use `compilation unit` to refer to a source file. It seems better to avoid overloading the term.

## Suggestion and anti-patterns

 - Avoid using `TypeTree`s (therefore `TypeTree.of`) when you could use `TypeRepr`

>  - Avoid using `Symbol.tree` for the reasons mentioned [here](#symbols) and because of

Reviewer: Did you check that this anchor link works?

Author: Yes it seems to work 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6325220/117622539-fcc3a380-b172-11eb-879c-df6101c399ac.png)

`Symbol`s make it possible to compare two definitions using `==` to know if they are the same.
In addition `Symbol` exposes and is used by many useful methods. For example:

 - `declaredFields` and `declaredMethods` allow you to iterate on the fields and members defined inside a symbol
 - `flags` allows you to check multiple properties of a symbol
 - `companionObject` and `companionModule` provide a way to jump to and from the companion object/class.
 - `TypeRepr.baseClasses` returns the list of symbols of classes extended by a type. 
 - `Symbol.pos` gives you access to the position where the symbol is defined, the source code of the definition
 and even the filename where the symbol is defined.
 - and many useful others that you can find in [`SymbolMethods`](https://dotty.epfl.ch/api/scala/quoted/Quotes$reflectModule$SymbolMethods.html)

### To Symbol and back

 - `TypeRepr.typeSymbol` returns the symbol of the type represented by `TypeRepr`. The recommended way to obtain a `Symbol` given a `Type[T]` is `TypeRepr.of[T].typeSymbol`
 - For a singleton type, `TypeRepr.termSymbol` returns the symbol of the underlying object or value.

>  - `TypeRepr.memberType(symbol)` returns the `TypeRepr` of the provided symbol

Reviewer: I think it’s a bit confusing that we use the same syntax `TypeRepr.foo` to refer to both methods of the companion object `TypeRepr`, and method of the type `TypeRepr`. We should use different syntaxes.

Author: Do you prefer that I introduce an object of type `TypeRepr` or use `TypeReprMethods.termSymbol` / `TypeReprModule.of` ?

Reviewer: What about “The method `memberType(symbol)` on type `TypeRepr` …”?

## More
*Coming soon*

[tasty inspection]: {{ site.scala3ref }}/metaprogramming/tasty-inspect.html
[reflection doc]: https://dotty.epfl.ch/api/scala/quoted/Quotes$reflectModule.html?query=trait%20reflectModule

> [best practices]: {% link _overviews/scala-macros/best-practices.md %}

Reviewer 4: Same here, it probably should be
```suggestion
[best practices]: {% link _overviews/scala3-macros/best-practices.md %}
```
